Would you agree that we live in difficult times?
Despite some advances in technology, people still must endure the ravages of war,
food shortages, pestilence, and disasters of various kinds.
Add to that the bitter opposition and persecution we face from those who do not yet know Jehovah.
How we yearn for justice and relief.
The Bible Book of Revelation figuratively quotes faithful martyrs as calling out to Jehovah
until when, sovereign Lord, holy and true, are you refraining from judging and avenging our blood?
Although those martyrs were told to wait a little longer,
Christ Jesus makes this remarkable statement recorded at Revelation 10 verse 6.
There will be no delay any longer.
That's good news. The entire Book of Revelation is good news for all who love and trust Jehovah.
It foretells momentous events, but we need not fear them because we know that Jehovah cares for us.
The good news that Revelation contains is that all that grieves us today will soon disappear.
And all of its promises center on one person, Jesus Christ.
In its very first verse, this thrilling Bible Book is described as a revelation by Jesus Christ.
It foretells events that occur during the Lord's day.
That is, the period that began when our Lord Jesus became king in 1914 and continues until the end of his thousand year reign.
And throughout Revelation, we read of Jesus' key role in destroying God's enemies,
removing our suffering, and restoring earth to a paradise.
These are not empty promises.
Revelation 1 verse 1 declares that these things must shortly take place.
What sort of things must shortly take place?
What role will Jesus play in these events?
And how will they bring justice and relief to us?
Let's begin by considering what will happen to the world empire of false religion.
Please turn to Revelation chapter 18.
Revelation depicts false religion as an evil prostitute, with the name Babylon the Great.
For millennium, she has ridiculed, persecuted, and killed God's people.
Shamelessly, she has exploited and deceived people with lies.
Her influence is strong, but that's about to change.
As we begin reading at Revelation 18 verse 1, note what will happen to Babylon the Great and why?
After this, I saw another angel descending from heaven with great authority,
and the earth was illuminated by his glory, and he cried out with a strong voice saying,
she has fallen, Babylon the Great has fallen, and she has become a dwelling place of demons,
and a place where every unclean spirit and every unclean and hated bird lurks.
For because of the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality,
all the nations have fallen victim, and the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality with her,
and the merchants of the earth became rich, owing to the power of her shameless luxury.
And I heard another voice out of heaven say,
Get out of her, my people, if you do not want to share with her in her sins,
and if you do not want to receive part of her plagues.
For her sins have massed together, clear up to heaven, and God has called her acts of
injustice to mind. Repay her in the way she treated others.
Yes, pay her back double for the things she has done.
In the cup she has mixed, mixed a double portion for her,
to the extent that she glorified herself, and lived in shameless luxury,
to that extent give her torment and mourning, for she keeps saying in her heart,
I sit as queen, and I am not a widow, and I will never see mourning.
That is why in one day her plagues will come.
Death, and mourning, and famine, and she will be completely burned with fire,
because Jehovah God who judged her is strong.
Babylon views herself as a powerful queen who will never be brought down.
Why should she? After all, she has thrived for thousands of years,
and yet a terrible destruction is coming, and it will envelop her suddenly as if in one day,
what role does Jesus play in this event? Look again at verses one and two.
Who announces the fall of Babylon, an angel whose glory lights up the whole earth?
To whom has Jehovah given such glory to our Lord Jesus?
Since 1914, Jesus has been exercising authority over the earth as king and judge.
How fitting that he announces the fall of Babylon the Great.
But that judgment brings with it a warning.
Get out of her.
Never would we want to have any part of an organization that's doomed to destruction.
Jehovah detests Babylon the Great, so must we.
And yet, there are many who have profited from false religion.
Rulers have looked to Babylon the Great to support their policies and their wars.
Merchants have benefited financially. How do they react to Babylon's surprising and sudden
destruction? Let's see as we continue reading from Revelation 18 verse 9.
Great city, Babylon, you strong city, because in one hour your judgment has arrived.
Also, the merchants of the earth are weeping and mourning over her because there is no one to buy
their full cargo anymore, a full cargo of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen,
purple cloth, silk, and scarlet cloth, and everything made from scented wood,
and every sort of object made from ivory, and from precious wood, copper, iron, and marble.
Also, cinnamon, Indian spice, incense, perfumed oil, frankincense, wine, olive oil,
fine flower, wheat, cattle, sheep, horses, carriages, slaves, and human lives.
Yes, the fine fruit that you desired has left you, and all the delicacies, and the splendid
things have vanished from you, never to be found again. The merchants who sold these things,
who became rich from her, will stand at a distance because of their fear of her torment,
and will weep and mourn, saying, too bad, too bad the great city,
clothed with fine linen, purple, and scarlet, and richly adorned with gold ornaments,
precious stones, and pearls. Because in one hour such great riches have been devastated,
and every ship captain, and every seafaring person, and sailors, and all those who make a living
by the sea, stood at a distance, and cried out as they look at the smoke from her burning,
and said, what city is like the great city? They threw dust on their heads, and cried out,
weeping, and mourning, and said, too bad, too bad the great city, in which all those who had
ships at sea became rich from her wealth, because in one hour she has been devastated.
Too bad, too bad they cry, but what about God's servants? They have a much different reaction.
Let's read on from verse 20 to see how God's servants both in heaven and on earth will react
to Babylon's destruction. Notice, too, why false religion deserves such scathing judgment.
And a strong angel lifted up a stone like a great new stone, and hurled it into the sea,
saying, thus with a swift pitch will Babylon the great city be hurled down, and she will never
be found again, and the sound of singers who accompany themselves on the heart, of musicians,
of flutists, and of trumpeters will never be heard in you again, and no craftsmen who practices
any trade will ever be found in you again, and no sound of a millstone will ever be heard in you
again. No light of a lamp will ever shine in you again, and no voice of a bridegroom and of a bride
will ever be heard in you again. For your merchants were the top-ranking men of the earth,
and by your spiritual practices all the nations were misled. Yes, in her was found the blood of
prophets, and of holy ones, and of all those who have been slaughtered on the earth. After this,
I heard what seemed to be a loud voice of a great crowd in heaven. They said,
pray to salvation and the glory and the power, because his judgments are true and righteous,
for he has executed judgment on the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality,
and he has avenged the blood of his slaves and is on her hands. And right away, for the second time,
they said,
Yes, praise jaw. Why? False religious leaders were responsible for the death of the prophets,
and of Jesus Christ himself. Later, the disciple Stephen asked the religious leaders,
which one of the prophets did your forefathers not persecute?
Yes, they killed those who announced in advance the coming of the righteous one,
whose betrayers and murderers you have now become. Instead of taking Stephen's rebuke to heart,
they murdered him too, that same day. In the century since Stephen's day,
false religion has continued to mislead, to slaughter, and to corrupt the earth with her sexual immorality.
So once again, we can ask, why praise jaw? The heavenly chorus answers,
because God's judgments are true and righteous. Our just God, Jehovah, will make sure that false
religion will never again defile this world and harm his loyal servants.
The destruction of Babel on the Great marks the beginning of what Jesus called the Great Tribulation.
After false religion is gone, what comes next? The book of Ezekiel foretells that the nations will
attack Jehovah's people, coming like a vast army and like clouds covering the land.
But this is not the first time that the political system has acted against Jehovah and his people.
Many nations have fiercely opposed true worship. They've banned our meetings and our
preaching work. In prison, men and women, old and young, for the so-called crime of owning a Bible,
or talking about their God, some of our brothers and sisters have even been tortured for their faith.
Of course, as long as Jehovah allows human governments to rule over us, we respect them.
And not all governments have actively opposed us.
Still, human government itself is insulting to Jehovah.
Human rulers suggest that they could rule better than the King of kings and Lord of
Lords, Christ Jesus, how arrogant. No wonder then that once these political powers attack God's people,
Jesus will take action. In Revelation 19, note the actions that Jesus takes against the Anglo-American
world power portrayed as a false prophet, and the entire political system described as the
kings of the earth and the wild beast. We'll begin reading at Revelation 19, verse 11.
And on his head are many diadems. He has a name written that no one knows but he himself,
and he is clothed with an outer garment, stained with blood, and he is called by the name
the Word of God. Also, the armies in heaven were following him on white horses,
and they were clothed in white, clean, fine linen. Ask, out of his mouth,
protrudes a sharp, long sword with which to strike the nations, and he will shepherd them with
a rod of iron. Moreover, he treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
On his outer garment, yes, on his thigh, he has a name written, King of kings, and Lord of Lords.
I saw also an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice and said to all the
birds that fly in mid-Heaven, come here. Be gathered together to the great evening meal of God
so that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of military commanders, and the flesh
of straw men, and the flesh of horses, and of those seated on them, and the flesh of all,
of free men, as well as of slaves, and of small ones, and great.
And I saw the wild beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together
to wage war against the one seated on the horse, and against his army, and the wild beast was caught,
and along with it the false prophet that performed in front of it the signs with which he misled
those who received the mark of the wild beast, and those who worship its image, while still alive,
they both were hurled into the fiery lake that burns with sulfur, but the rest were killed off with
the long sword that proceeded out of the mouth of the one seated on the horse, and all the birds were
food with their flesh. Who else but Christ Jesus would lead the heavenly forces to the battle of
Armageddon? False religion has already been destroyed. Now Jesus turns his attention to what
remains of Satan's wicked world. It's political and commercial systems. He dismantles,
destroys, and brings to nothing all who oppose true worship on earth, but enemies of true
worship still remain. Who are they? And what does Jesus do about them? Follow along at Revelation 20
versus one through three. And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven with the key of the abyss,
and a great chain in his hand. He sees the dragon, the original serpent, who is the devil and Satan,
and bound him for one thousand years, and he hurled him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it
over him so that he would not mislead the nations anymore until the one thousand years were ended.
After this, he must be released for a little while. Who has the key of the abyss?
Doubtless the same one who was prophesied to brew Satan's head, Jesus Christ. It's Jesus who
will remove all enemies of God, including the great enemy Satan himself. Into the abyss he'll go,
Jesus doesn't just put him there, he hurls him there. Good riddance. After the dust of Armageddon
settles, God's kingdom will act to restore the earth to the state Jehovah originally intended.
Those who've been loyal to Jehovah will then witness astonishing things. Let's consider one of them
beginning at Revelation 20 verse 12. And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before
the throne and scrolls were opened, but another scroll was opened. It is the scroll of life.
The dead were judged out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds.
And the seal gave up the dead in it, and death and the grave gave up the dead in them,
and they were judged individually according to their deeds. And death and the grave were
holed into the lake of fire. This means the second death, the lake of fire.
According to verse 4, Jehovah, the supreme judge, has delegated authority to judge to Jesus Christ
and His co-rulers. Whom will they be judging? Not merely the great crowd who have survived Armageddon,
but billions of others who will be resurrected from the dead. And at the end of the millennial reign,
death itself will finally be gone. It's hurled into the lake of fire as irretrievable as a piece
of paper thrown into a raging furnace. What will life be like under Kingdom rule?
How we love the promises at Revelation 21 verse 4, and God will wipe out every tear from their eyes.
And death will be no more, neither will morning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
Just think of what this will mean. The death will hear and listen to the sounds of gentle rains,
happy people, bird song, and beautiful music. The blind will see examined starry skies
and behold rainbows. They will watch animals and children at play.
Mankind will experience miraculous healing on a global scale.
Those once disabled or elderly will hike through a forest, climb a mountain, or run on a sandy beach.
Gone will be hunger, sickness and injustice. There will be no wicked people. Everyone will live
in perfect health, security and happiness, and do so forever. Think deeply about these promises.
Engage your senses. Let's conclude by reading a passage from the final chapter of Revelation.
Chapter 22, which describes other blessings that will come from earth's righteous rulers.
And he showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal flowing out from the throne of God and of the Lamb,
down the middle of its main street. On both sides of the river were trees of life, producing 12 crops of fruit,
yielding their fruit each month, and the leaves of the trees were for the healing of the nations.
And there will no longer be any curse. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city,
and his slaves will offer him sacred service, and they will see his face, and his name will be on
their foreheads. Also, night will be no more, and they have no need of lamp light or sunlight.
For Jehovah God will shed light upon them, and they will rule as kings forever and ever.
He said to me,
These words are faithful and true. Yes, Jehovah, the God who inspired the prophets,
has sent his angel to show his slaves the things that must shortly take place. Look, I am coming quickly.
Happy is anyone observing the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
Do you long to worship Jehovah in perfect health,
under perfect rule, in a perfect world? Our king longs for that day too.
The angel tells John that these things must shortly take place. And speaking in Jesus' name,
the angel says, I am coming quickly.
Today's world presents many problems, but Jesus will solve them all.
He's announced that false religion will soon end. He'll defeat the rest of this system of things
at the War of Armageddon. He'll abyss and eventually destroy that despicable serpent,
Satan the devil, and soon he'll eliminate the last enemy, death.
These things will happen. Should we ever have any doubts? Remember the angels' words.
These words are faithful and true. What good news for all of us who support our king,
Christ Jesus. Yes, we echo the Apostle John's words in verse 20. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.